# BIOMD0000000343: model01

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000343.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000343.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
** Mass and information feedbacks through receptor endocytosis govern insulin signaling as revealed using a parameter-free modeling framework. **   
Brannmark C, Palmer R, Glad ST, Cedersund G, Stralfors P. _J Biol Chem._2010
Jun 25;285(26):20171-9.
[20421297](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20421297),  
**Abstract:**   
Insulin and other hormones control target cells through a network of signal-
mediating molecules. Such networks are extremely complex due to multiple
feedback loops in combination with redundancy, shared signal mediators, and
cross-talk between signal pathways. We present a novel framework that
integrates experimental work and mathematical modeling to quantitatively
characterize the role and relation between co-existing submechanisms in
complex signaling networks. The approach is independent of knowing or uniquely
estimating model parameters because it only relies on (i) rejections and (ii)
core predictions (uniquely identified properties in unidentifiable models).
The power of our approach is demonstrated through numerous iterations between
experiments, model-based data analyses, and theoretical predictions to
characterize the relative role of co-existing feedbacks governing insulin
signaling. We examined phosphorylation of the insulin receptor and insulin
receptor substrate-1 and endocytosis of the receptor in response to various
different experimental perturbations in primary human adipocytes. The analysis
revealed that receptor endocytosis is necessary for two identified feedback
mechanisms involving mass and information transfer, respectively. Experimental
findings indicate that interfering with the feedback may substantially
increase overall signaling strength, suggesting novel therapeutic targets for
insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Because the central observations are
present in other signaling networks, our results may indicate a general
mechanism in hormonal control.


